# Starter Tutorial - 2

## Writing Basic Views
1. Add views in poll application. It will have:
- Question “index” page – displays the latest few questions.
- Question “detail” page – displays a question text, with no results but with a form to vote.
- Question “results” page – displays results for a particular question.
- Vote action – handles voting for a particular choice in a particular question.
2. Update `../polls/views.py` file to include the views
3. Wire these new views into the `polls.urls` module
4. Update `index` views to show the question list 

## Writing Index Views With Template
1. Template namespacing:
   - Create sub-directories inside `polls` app. File path should be `polls/templates/polls`
   - The path is not `polls/templates`. As, Django will choose the first template it finds whose name matches, and if you had a template with the same name in a different application, Django would be unable to distinguish between them. We need to be able to point Django at the right one, and the best way to ensure this is by namespacing them. That is, by putting those templates inside another directory named for the application itself.
2. Create a file named `../polls/templates/polls/index.html` to show the question list
3. Update `../polls/views.py` to load the `index` template
4. One can use shortcut `render` function

## Writing Details Views With Template
1. Handle `404 error` for question which doesn't match any questions id
2. Add `detail` view in `templates` directory
3. Update `index` view to take `details` url dynamically instead of hardcoding it
4. Add namespacing in `urls.py` file by setting `app_name`
5. Include namespace info in `index.html` file 


## REFERENCE
1. https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/intro/tutorial03/
2. https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/topics/templates/
