# Tkinter Basic

## Check Tkinter at work
1. Create a python file name `1_introduction.py` and paste
```python
import tkinter

window = tkinter.Tk()
# to rename the title of the window
window.title("GUI")
# pack is used to show the object in the window
label = tkinter.Label(window, text = "Welcome to DataCamp's Tutorial on Tkinter!").pack()
window.mainloop()
```
2. Run the python file using `python <file-path>`
3. Understand the code:
   - Import the key component, i.e., the Tkinter module.
   - Initialize the window manager with the `tkinter.Tk()` method and assign it to a variable. This method creates a blank window with close, maximize, and minimize buttons on the top as a usual GUI should have.
   - Rename the title of the window as you like with `window.title(title_of_the_window)`.
   - Make use of a `widget` called `Label`, which is used to insert some text into the window.
   - Make use of a widget called Label, which is used to insert some text into the window.
   - As the last step, use the mainloop() method to display the window until you manually close it. It runs an infinite loop in the backend.
   - A widget `Button` can be added in same way instead of `Label`.
   - For Example:
    ```python
    button_widget = tkinter.Button(window,text="Welcome to DataCamp's Tutorial on Tkinter")
    button_widget.pack()
    ```

## Tkinter widget

Widgets are similar in spirit to elements in HTML. You will find different types of widgets for different types of elements in the Tkinter. They are standard GUI elements and provide the user with controls like buttons, text, menus, and text boxes. For Example:

### Button
`Button` widget has a property for switching on/off. When a user clicks the button, an event is triggered in the `Tkinter`. It has following `syntax`:
```python
button_widget = tk.Button(widget, option=placeholder)
```
 where `widget` is the argument for the parent window/frame while option is a `placeholder` that can have various values like foreground & background color, font, command (for function call), image, height, and width of button.

### Canvas
`Canvas` is used to draw shapes in your GUI and supports various drawing methods. It has following `syntax`:
```python
canvas_widget = tk.Canvas(widget, option=placeholder)
```
 where `widget` is the parameter for the parent window/frame while option is a `placeholder` that can have various values like border-width, background color, height and width of widget.

### Checkbutton:
`Checkbutton` records on-off or true-false state. It lets you can select more than one option at a time and even leave it unchecked. It has following `syntax`:
```python
checkbutton_widget = tk.CheckButton(widget, option=placeholder)
```
where `widget` is the parameter for the parent window/frame while option is a `placeholder` that can have various values like title, text, background & foreground color while widget is under the cursor, font, image, etc.

### Entry
`Entry` widget is used to create input fields or to get input text from the user within the GUI. It has following `syntax`:
```python
entry_widget = tk.Entry(widget, option=placeholder)
```
where `widget` is the parameter for the parent window/frame while option is a `placeholder` that can have various values like border-width, background color, width & height of button etc.

### Frame
`Frame` is used as containers in the Tkinter for grouping and adequately organizing the widgets. It has following `syntax`:
```python
frame_widget = tk.Frame(widget, option=placeholder)
```
where `widge`t is the parameter for the parent window/frame while option is a `placeholder` that can have various values like border-width, height & width of widget, highlightcolor (color when widget has to be focused).

### Label:
`Label` is used to create a single line widgets like text, images, etc. It has following `syntax`:
```python
label_widget = tk.Label(widget, option=placeholder)
```
where `widget` is the parameter for the parent window/frame while option is a `placeholder` that can have various values like the font of a button, background color, image, width, and height of button.


## Geometry Management
All widgets in `Tkinter` have some geometry measurements. These geometry measurements allow you to organize the widgets and throughout the parent frames or parent widget area.

Tkinter provides you with `three` main geometry manager classes:

- `pack()`: It organizes the widgets in a block manner, and the complete available width is occupied by it. It's a conventional method to show the widgets in the window.
- `grid()`: It organizes the widgets in a table-like structure. You will learn about it in detail later in this tutorial.
- `place()`: Its purpose is to place the widgets at a specific position as instructed by the user in the parent widget.


## Organizing Layout and Widgets
- Try using the layout and widgets by analyzing and modifying below code:
```python
import tkinter

# Let's create the Tkinter window.
window = tkinter.Tk()
window.title("GUI")

# You will first create a division with the help of Frame class and align them on TOP and BOTTOM with pack() method.
top_frame = tkinter.Frame(window).pack()
bottom_frame = tkinter.Frame(window).pack(side = "bottom")

# Once the frames are created then you are all set to add widgets in both the frames.
btn1 = tkinter.Button(top_frame, text = "Button1", fg = "red").pack() #'fg or foreground' is for coloring the contents (buttons)

btn2 = tkinter.Button(top_frame, text = "Button2", fg = "green").pack()

btn3 = tkinter.Button(bottom_frame, text = "Button3", fg = "purple").pack(side = "left") #'side' is used to left or right align the widgets

btn4 = tkinter.Button(bottom_frame, text = "Button4", fg = "orange").pack(side = "left")

window.mainloop()
```
- Modify the code to set default size to the `window`


## Grid
Much like a `Frame`, a grid is another way to organize the widgets. It uses the `Matrix row-column concept`. Grid primarily takes two parameters `row` and `column`.

## Binding or Command Functions
Binding or Command functions are those who are called whenever an event occurs or is triggered.

### command function
`command` function is passed with the widget. And whenever action like clicking on a `button` happens, that function is called

### bind function
`bind` method provides a very simplistic approach to implementing the mouse clicking events

- Clicking events are of three types `leftClick`, `middleClick`, and `rightClick`.



## REFERENCES
1. https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/gui-tkinter-python
2. https://docs.python.org/3/library/tk.html
3. https://pythonexamples.org/python-tkinter-set-window-size/
